---
layout: post
title: "Hope"
date: 2020-04-06
post-image: "sunrise.jpg"
---

### <center> Hope delayed makes the heart sick, but desire fulfilled is a tree of life. <br> - Proverbs 13:12 CSB </center>

## Everything is Going to Be Okay

Lately, a verse has been bouncing around my head from one of my favorite books of the Bible, Proverbs 13:12. I like the way the CSB translation puts it: “Hope delayed makes the heart sick, but desire fulfilled is a tree of life.” We are currently living in what some would call an unprecedented time of distress. Yet, in this time we have reason to hope that things will get better. Looking back through all of history we see a constant cycle of good times and bad times. My FAVORITE book of the Bible, Ecclesiates, is a monologue by someone identified as “The Preacher” and he echoes this idea in chapter 3. “For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven” He then proceeds to list some of the different seasons of life he observes. “A time to be born, and a time to die.” (v. 2) “A time to weep, and a time to laugh.” (v. 4) “A time to keep silence, and a time to speak.” (v. 7) “A time for war, and a time for peace.” (v. 8) Here The Preacher is observing the cyclical nature of seasons of life. Some seasons are longer than others but one thing is certain: seasons will change, just as in nature. Difficult seasons in life will give way to more enjoyable seasons and vice versa. We may not be able to predict what season is next but we can be certain that a change is coming.

## “Hope delayed makes the heart sick…” 

Think about one of the last things you have hoped for. Do you remember the feelings and emotions you experienced during that time? Google told me the definition of hope is “a feeling of expectation and desire for a certain thing to happen” Maybe you have hoped to get into a certain grad school program, or to win a certain competition or prize. Maybe you have hoped to spend an extended afternoon with a good friend or hoped for test results to come back in your favor. We all hope. It's an experience shared by all human beings. In periods of hoping for something we feel uneasy, nervous and stressed. Our heart is “made sick” as the proverb suggests. In contrast, once a desire is fulfilled we no longer have reason to ache in hope and our heart is made glad! The proverb uses an image of a tree, full of life -- sprouting beautiful branches and leaves for all to see and celebrate!

## United in Hope

Right now, around the world, we find ourselves a people united under a single hope. Hope that this pandemic and its effects will cease so that we may resume our normal lives one again. Together, in hope, our hearts are sick. But the day is coming when our hope will come to fruition like that tree of life. This virus will run its course. People will be healed. Economies and infrastructures will resume. It may be, however, that things will get worse before they get better, but we can hope for a time when things are better. In the meantime we can each continue doing our part to slow the spread of disease and fear encouraging each other and (virtually) coming alongside those who most need our presence. Hold onto hope and limit the inputs that amplify fear.

Safety and blessings to you

-Brandon 
